README.md, before:

Milestone Portfolio Project 1 - HTML and CSS
Project Heal

CONTENTS

PURPOSE

The sole purpose of creating this website is completing the first Milestone Project for the Code Institute's Full Stack Developer course. It was built using the knowledge gained from the HTML and CSS Essentials Modules.

The target audience for this product is users looking for self improvement. The main focus of the site is educating users, enabling them to understand Project Heal’s mission and allowing them to sign up to a newsletter for further guidance and latest news/events. Therefore this website is aimed at anyone who is looking to gain more insight into alternative/holistic healing and wishes to boost their mental and/or physical state, or indeed anyone looking to connect with like-minded individuals through local events. 

PRODUCT
Offering users the ability to sign up for free holistic healing advice that is issued via newsletter which combines information on popular mind and body techniques with traditional spiritual wisdom and any local news/events that might interest or assist in the user’s journey. The website also helps users to understand the 4 main categories that can:
- create a shift in consciousness
- increase concentration and mindfulness
- assist in reconnecting with nature
- promote optimum health and happiness

Local events hosted by external parties that users can attend are listed on Meetup or Eventbrite and shared via the Project Heal’s newsletter. Users can become a member by signing up to the Project Heal newsletter via the Contact Form on the Project Heal website. 

MISSION:
Project Heal mission is to facilitate living a healthy and happy lifestyle and spread awareness of the ever increasing demands of modern society which are causing more individuals than ever before to seek self-help for issues that may be harmful in the long run if left untreated but are all too often put on a waitlist for support. We want to enable more people to take immediate action on their own health before preventable illnesses become yet another global crisis that mankind must face. 


Take a Look Here: 

FINAL DESIGN

Image: http://ami.responsivedesign.is/

INITIAL IDEA CONCEPT

WIREFRAMES

Homepage Wireframe: https://share.balsamiq.com/c/iVQGd9XuhAcpKYs74jEGpw.png

Ethos Wireframe: https://share.balsamiq.com/c/5G17myjCyHJp7apfmPxLPf.png

Contact Wireframe: https://share.balsamiq.com/c/fkkBXAXKKYudwGk7BzkQvo.png

UX/UI User Experience Design

USER STORIES

First Time Visitor Goals
* To easily understand the main purpose of the site
* To learn about the organisation.
* To intuitively navigate throughout the site.
* To be able to view the website and content clearly on any device, especially mobile.

Returning Visitor Goals
* To contact the organisation so they can request more information.
* To sign up to the newsletter
* To add new contact details

Frequent Visitor Goals
* To check to see if there is any new guidance
* To check if any additions to the site’s features.
* To get alternative contact details for the organisation (email/phone)

DESIGN

All Pages contain a Navigation menu at the top of the Webpage that directs the user to a new Page to allow users to Navigate the site easily. The Nav Menu is repositioned on a Mobile device to make use of space on smaller devices.

Business Goals

Target Audience

User Goals

FEATURES
Existing Features
Home
- Nav Bar
- Hero Image
- Footer
Ethos
Contact

Future Features


TESTING

Checked CSS Stylesheet correctly linkd to HTML but changing font-family

DEVICES


Validator Testing


Lighthouse

Chrome Developer Tools & Responsive

Links

Browsers



Accessibility


FIXED BUGS AND ERRORS

UNRESOLVED BUGS OR ERRORS

FUNCTIONALITY

TECHNOLOGIES USED

PROGRAMS USED

DEPLOYMENT

Creating My Website

Git Hub Pages

Forking a repo

Cloning a repo


REMOTE DEPLOYMENT:

HOW TO FORK A REPOSITORY:

HOW TO CLONE A REPOSITORY:

HOW TO MAKE A LOCAL CLONE


CREDITS AND REFERENCES

IMAGES AND INFORMATION


Content

Information on Potential Use Case
https://www.theguardian.com/science/2022/jan/02/attention-span-focus-screens-apps-smartphones-social-media

Media

Images

Videos

CODE


Flexbox tutorials
https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/
https://daily-dev-tips.com/posts/chrome-devtools-flex-debugger/

Responsive Design Media Queries tutorials


Tools

Balsamiq Wireframes - https://balsamiq.cloud/
HTML - W3C Validator Validating my HTML
CSS - Jigsaw Validator Validating my CSS
Chrome Lighthouse and Chrome Developer Tools To check website performance
Gitpod Dev Environment using GIT to commit changes to Github
Github GithHub is the hosting site used to store the source code for the Website and Git Pages is used for the deployment of the live site.
Am I Responsive used to test responsiveness of the website at different screen sizes: http://ami.responsivedesign.is/

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS:


* I'd like to thank my mentor Ben Kavanagh for his unparalleled guidance, patience and support throughout my project: https://github.com/BAK2K3
* David Bowers, 5p Lead, for taking time out of work to jump on both informal calls and also webinars on CSS positioning and flexbox: https://github.com/dnlbowers
* Code institute for the Tutors on the course.
* Family, work colleagues and friends for their support, encouragement and patience whilst I battle the time management to juggle everything.
* Fellow community members on CI Slack workspace for sharing issues, hints, tips and advice

Commit message:

update README with flexbox tutorial links

README.md, after:

Milestone Portfolio Project 1 - HTML and CSS
Project Heal

CONTENTS

PURPOSE

The sole purpose of creating this website is completing the first Milestone Project for the Code Institute's Full Stack Developer course. It was built using the knowledge gained from the HTML and CSS Essentials Modules.

The target audience for this product is users looking for self improvement. The main focus of the site is educating users, enabling them to understand Project Heal’s mission and allowing them to sign up to a newsletter for further guidance and latest news/events. Therefore this website is aimed at anyone who is looking to gain more insight into alternative/holistic healing and wishes to boost their mental and/or physical state, or indeed anyone looking to connect with like-minded individuals through local events. 

PRODUCT
Offering users the ability to sign up for free holistic healing advice that is issued via newsletter which combines information on popular mind and body techniques with traditional spiritual wisdom and any local news/events that might interest or assist in the user’s journey. The website also helps users to understand the 4 main categories that can:
- create a shift in consciousness
- increase concentration and mindfulness
- assist in reconnecting with nature
- promote optimum health and happiness

Local events hosted by external parties that users can attend are listed on Meetup or Eventbrite and shared via the Project Heal’s newsletter. Users can become a member by signing up to the Project Heal newsletter via the Contact Form on the Project Heal website. 

MISSION:
Project Heal mission is to facilitate living a healthy and happy lifestyle and spread awareness of the ever increasing demands of modern society which are causing more individuals than ever before to seek self-help for issues that may be harmful in the long run if left untreated but are all too often put on a waitlist for support. We want to enable more people to take immediate action on their own health before preventable illnesses become yet another global crisis that mankind must face. 


Take a Look Here: 

FINAL DESIGN

Image: http://ami.responsivedesign.is/

INITIAL IDEA CONCEPT

WIREFRAMES

Homepage Wireframe: https://share.balsamiq.com/c/iVQGd9XuhAcpKYs74jEGpw.png

Ethos Wireframe: https://share.balsamiq.com/c/5G17myjCyHJp7apfmPxLPf.png

Contact Wireframe: https://share.balsamiq.com/c/fkkBXAXKKYudwGk7BzkQvo.png

UX/UI User Experience Design

USER STORIES

First Time Visitor Goals
* To easily understand the main purpose of the site
* To learn about the organisation.
* To intuitively navigate throughout the site.
* To be able to view the website and content clearly on any device, especially mobile.

Returning Visitor Goals
* To contact the organisation so they can request more information.
* To sign up to the newsletter
* To add new contact details

Frequent Visitor Goals
* To check to see if there is any new guidance
* To check if any additions to the site’s features.
* To get alternative contact details for the organisation (email/phone)

DESIGN

All Pages contain a Navigation menu at the top of the Webpage that directs the user to a new Page to allow users to Navigate the site easily. The Nav Menu is repositioned on a Mobile device to make use of space on smaller devices.

Business Goals

Target Audience

User Goals

FEATURES
Existing Features
Home
- Nav Bar
- Hero Image
- Footer
Ethos
Contact

Future Features


TESTING

Checked CSS Stylesheet correctly linkd to HTML but changing font-family

DEVICES


Validator Testing


Lighthouse

Chrome Developer Tools & Responsive

Links

Browsers



Accessibility


FIXED BUGS AND ERRORS

UNRESOLVED BUGS OR ERRORS

Need to get nav menu to sit centre under logo with media queries

FUNCTIONALITY

TECHNOLOGIES USED

PROGRAMS USED

DEPLOYMENT

Creating My Website

Git Hub Pages

Forking a repo

Cloning a repo


REMOTE DEPLOYMENT:

HOW TO FORK A REPOSITORY:

HOW TO CLONE A REPOSITORY:

HOW TO MAKE A LOCAL CLONE


CREDITS AND REFERENCES

IMAGES AND INFORMATION


Content

Information on Potential Use Case
https://www.theguardian.com/science/2022/jan/02/attention-span-focus-screens-apps-smartphones-social-media

Inspiration sites: 
Love Running 

Media

Images

Videos

CODE

Google Fonts https://fonts.google.com/

Flexbox tutorials
CSS Positioning Webinar: https://code-institute-room.slack.com/archives/C02RGGLDJR3/p1645203382787989?thread_ts=1641830243.003600&cid=C02RGGLDJR3
https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/
https://daily-dev-tips.com/posts/chrome-devtools-flex-debugger/
Tip from @seán_ci on slack community: How to easily create a Navigation Menu with Flexbox
W3Schools: https://www.w3schools.com/css/css3_flexbox.asp

Responsive Design Media Queries tutorials


Tools

Balsamiq Wireframes - https://balsamiq.cloud/
HTML - W3C Validator Validating my HTML
CSS - Jigsaw Validator Validating my CSS
Chrome Lighthouse and Chrome Developer Tools To check website performance
Gitpod Dev Environment using GIT to commit changes to Github
Github GithHub is the hosting site used to store the source code for the Website and Git Pages is used for the deployment of the live site.
Am I Responsive used to test responsiveness of the website at different screen sizes: http://ami.responsivedesign.is/

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS:


* I'd like to thank my mentor Ben Kavanagh for his unparalleled guidance, patience and support throughout my project: https://github.com/BAK2K3
* David Bowers, 5p Lead, for taking time out of work to jump on both informal calls and also webinars on CSS positioning and flexbox: https://github.com/dnlbowers
* Tip from @seán_ci on slack community: How to easily create a Navigation Menu with Flexbox  
* Tutors on the course, especially Ed who who helped with caching issues
* Family, work colleagues and friends for their support, encouragement and patience whilst I battle the time management to juggle everything.
* Fellow community members on CI Slack workspace for sharing issues, hints, tips and advice
* README Inspirations:
Love Running https://github.com/Code-Institute-Solutions/readme-template
https://github.com/TechCentreUK/Eco-Print
https://github.com/Chr15w1986/Portfolio-1
